---
template: post.html
title: GeoRocket 1.2.0
tags: [GeoRocket, Announcement]
description: GeoRocket version 1.2.0 has just been released
author: mkraemer
lead: A new stable version of GeoRocket has just been released
---

We're very happy to announce the next stable version of GeoRocket 1.2.0. We
worked hard to make this the best release available yet with a large number of
new features, fixes, and updates:

## New features

* We added a [new storage back-end]({{ site.url }}/docs/user-documentation/1.2.0/#config-backend-h2):
  The embedded database H2 stores geospatial data on your local hard drive but
  is much faster than the old [file system back-end]({{ site.url }}/docs/user-documentation/1.2.0/#config-backend-file). We made H2 the default
  back-end now. Note that in production environments, we still recommend using
  the [MongoDB back-end]({{ site.url }}/docs/user-documentation/1.2.0/#mongodb)
  as it allows for a more scalable cluster deployment.
* GeoRocket supports encrypted connections with [SSL/TLS]({{ site.url }}/docs/user-documentation/1.2.0/#http-interface-2) now. We also added
  support for the new [HTTP/2]({{ site.url }}/docs/user-documentation/1.2.0/#http-interface-2).
  This allows for a much faster client-server communication.
* We added support for [Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS)]({{ site.url }}/docs/user-documentation/1.2.0/#http-interface-2).
  This allows web developers to query the GeoRocket HTTP interface from the
  browser with JavaScript.
* HTTP compression can now be [turned on and off]({{ site.url }}/docs/user-documentation/1.2.0/#http-interface-2).
* We improved the performance of the XML splitter.
* You can now search for `gmlId` specifically. In particular, we added support
  for indexing `gml:id` from GML 3.2.
* We upgraded the [embedded Elasticsearch]({{ site.url }}/docs/user-documentation/1.2.0/#indexer-elasticsearch)
  version to 5.6.5. You can still use your own external one if you like.
* The [default heap size]({{ site.url }}/docs/user-documentation/1.2.0/#configuration-6)
  of the embedded Elasticsearch was increased.
* GeoRocket now logs progress while importing and deleting chunks.
* Error messages from Elasticsearch are now forwarded to
  [GeoRocket's HTTP interface]({{ site.url }}/docs/user-documentation/1.2.0/#error-responses).
* GeoRocket prints a fancy banner &#129304; and its server version on startup.
* We improved compatibility with Java 9.

## Server API

* The sever API now allows [new HTTP endpoints]({{ site.url }}/docs/api/server/1.2.0/io/georocket/http/Endpoint.html) to be added.
* GeoRocket extensions can now [register verticles]({{ site.url }}/docs/api/server/1.2.0/io/georocket/ExtensionVerticle.html).
* We've added the possibility to [filter service instances]({{ site.url }}/docs/api/server/1.2.0/io/georocket/util/ServiceFilter.html).

## Bug fixes

* GeoRocket now correctly imports files with a UTF-8 BOM.
* GeoJSON files with UTF-8 characters are now correctly split.
* GeoRocket now handles empty tags and properties correctly.
* We made sure all results are returned when scrolling.
* We fixed a `StackOverflowError` that could happen when scrolling with a very
  large frame size.

## Internal changes

* We upgraded Vert.x to 3.5.1.
* Library dependencies have been updated.
* We upgraded the Gradle Wrapper to 4.8.1.
* We improved our integration tests and unit tests.
* We replaced `rx.Single<Void>` with `rx.Completable` where applicable.
* All Observables are now cold by default.
* We replaced Rx operators by transformers.
* It is now easier to build the Docker image.

## More information

The new version is recommended for all users. Try GeoRocket 1.2.0 while it's
still hot! &#128293;

&#128640; https://georocket.io/download

For a complete [list of features](https://georocket.io/products) visit our
[website](https://georocket.io). There you will also find the
[user documentation](https://georocket.io/docs/user-documentation)
and other information.

If you have questions, ideas or comments regarding GeoRocket or any of our other
services feel free to [contact us](http://www.igd.fraunhofer.de/en/competences/technologies/spatial-information-management).
